{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20740\viewh16820\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs36 \cf0 ---TITILE SLIDE---\
\
Tropical deforestation of rainforests in Latin America has long been known to be serious environmental concern. A large body of literature exists around that topic, and many of its dynamics have been well-researched. However, relatively little attention is paid to subtropical or dry forest deforestation, despite the role of such forests in mitigating climate change and harboring biodiversity.\
\
Currently, many perceive the demand for agricultural land\'97particularly for soybeans--to be the largest driver of deforestation in the subtropical forests of Argentina. However, this perception is mostly assumed; the literature has not fully investigated the relationship between the expansion of soybeans and deforestation. It was my initial intention to investigate this connection, but I ran into the issue of how to detect crops by type to see where soy and other crops are being grown. Existing techniques require the development of training sites from a known ground truth, but such data are often unavailable and/or expensive and time consuming to procure. Such was the case for my study site in Argentina. Consequently, I began to consider a new method for classifying crops, specifically a method using multi-day vegetation index imagery that classifies pixels based on their temporal signatures, with the hope that this research might one day provide a means of agricultural classification that does not require ground truth.\
\
---RESEARCH QUESTIONS---\
Specifically, I came up with three research questions.\
\
Can I\'85\
-> develop a phenological classification toolset to facilitate this research?\
-> can I extract temporal signatures for crops from data for a Kansas study site?\
-> can I classify an Argentina study site using the extracted Kansas crop signatures?\
\
---OUTLINE---\
Just briefly before I dive into this, here is a quick outline of my talk.\
\
1) I will begin with some information to set the context of deforestation and soybeans in Argentina in my background section. I will also discuss Vegetation Indices and the theory behind phenological classification.\
\
2) Next, I will provide a quick overview of my Kansas and Argentina study areas.\
\
3) Third, I will discuss the datasets I used for this analysis and the specific processing I did for this study.\
\
4) Fourth, I will show the results from the processing, discussing what they mean as I go along.\
\
5) Lastly, I will wrap up my talk with some concluding remarks.\
\
---DEFORESTATION IN ARGENTINA---\
Argentina has experienced extremely high levels of deforestation over the past century. It was remarked that in 1915 over 30% of the country was forested; in 2001 only 10% remained forested.\
\
-> An official forest inventory by the Argentine Secretary of Sustainable Development and the Environment found that from 1998 to 2002 over 940,000 hectares were deforested.\
\
Such levels of deforestation even concerned lawmakers enough to pass the\
-> Ley de Bosques (the Forest Act) in November 2007 in an attempt to foster the sustainable management of Argentina\'92s forest resources. The law mandated that native forests be classified, through the Ordenamiento Territorial de los Bosques Nativos (land management order of native forests), into red, yellow, and green areas with varying restrictions.\
-> Red areas are fully protected from cutting, yellow areas are approved for sustainable use only, and green is without any restriction. The OTBN was passed in 2009.\
\
-> At the national level, the law seems as though it may have had a small effect on slowing cutting.\
\
[DISCUSS THE TABLE]\
\
Total, over 1.5 million hectares were cut in this time period.\
-> We 
\i CAN
\i0  see a marginal decrease in deforestation, but the rate of deforestation remains extremely high. This has led some to question the effect of Ley de Bosques, and I believe demonstrates the need to develop a better understand of the dynamics of the deforestation.  We could then understand why it is occurring and what effects the Ley de Bosques 
\i IS
\i0  having.\
\
---SOY AND ITS EFFECTS---\
At the same, soy cultivation has continually increased in Argentina. The National Institute of Statistics and the Census found the extent of soy in country in 1993 to be 5 million hectares. By 2011, that figure had jumped to some 19 million hectares of soy.\
\
-> Soy production in Argentina is highly mechanized. That is, farmers are able to use tractors and other farm implements to efficiently manage large fields of soy with minimal labor.\
-> Additionally, over 99% of Argentine soy is genetically modified, specifically of Monsanto's roundup ready variety. This resistance to glyophosate allows farmers to use substantial amounts of the herbicide to cull weeds, but has led to resistance in the local weed population. Moreover, high amounts of fertilizers are often used with this crop.\
-> All together, from the cost of the seed, the inputs, and the large expenditure in equipment, small producers cannot compete. To receive a profitable return on investment, farmers must cultivate larger and larger parcels. Only with such economies of scale can they turn profitable.\
\
-> As I have mentioned, the prevailing perception in Argentina is that soy is the primary driver of deforestation in the country. However, this perception is largely tentative; \
-> Research has neglected to to analyze specific crop cover; rather, the vast majority of studies I found in my research classified land cover into general categories, such as forest and agriculture, but did not break down agriculture into specific crop types. Therefore, we have little evidence to point to soy as the source of deforestation as we do not know where it is occurring and what land uses and land covers it is displacing.\
\
So, this brings me to the goal of this research, the first of my research questions:\
-> I need to develop a crop mapping toolset which is efficient and economical. That is, I want a tool that is easy to use and can process publicly available data, and is able to differentiate between different crops, such as corn and soy.\
\
-> Why is this important?\
-> Such a tool would provide that better understanding of the dynamics of deforestation I am seeking\
-> And with that understanding we could create more effective land management policies, policies targeting the true causes of the deforestation.\
\
---VEGETATION INDICES---\
Okay, that was the why. But what about the how? Well, that is still a problem. We must be able to classify crops by type\'85how do we do that?\
\
-> Before we can solve this problem, we must first recognize that we can abstract crops and other land cover by using a vegetation index, or VI. This can help by providing a single number corresponding to the vegetatedness of pixel in satellite imagery.\
-> A common VI is the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, or NDVI, and is what I chose to use for this project.\
-> NDVI is calculated based on the red and near infrared reflectance, and it theoretically ranges from -1 to 1, -1 being no vegetation and 1 being highly vegetated.\
-> Because of the division in the calculation, this is a ratioing index\
-> it therefore has the advantage that the ratioing minimizes multiplicative noise, such as inconsistent illumination in a frame, or sensor gain issues\
-> However, NDVI does have problems with non-linearity. That is, at high biomass levels it begins to saturate, and the calculated value does not increase linearly with corresponding increases in biomass.\
\
-> So now we know we can abstract crops and other land cover using NDVI, but this still does not solve the problem of how to classify crops by type. We know we can use a VI like NDVI to measure vegetatedness, but\
\
-> What if two crops have similar VI values on a single date? and, more importantly,\
-> How can one even determine the VI values corresponding to each crop? Well, let's break these questions down.\
\
-> For the first question, the answer is fairly obviously: Use imagery from multiple dates. Thus, as crops tend to develop at different times of the year, one can try to maximize the number of pixels that can be differentiated from one another by comparing the VI values at two or more times throughout the crops' development.\
\
---TIME SERIES IMAGES---\
In fact, we can take this to an extreme and use many dates to build up a stack of image I like to call a Time Series Image. And a great source for the images to build this stack data from NASA's Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer Sensor, or the MODIS sensor.\
-> Two Earth-observing satellites collect MODIS data: Terra and Aqua. Each images most of the Earth at least once per day. A great feature of MODIS data is that it is available in many pre-processed products including\
-> 16-day NDVI composites with 250-meter resolution from each of the two satellites. The composites are a compilation of the previous 16 days' NDVI values, merged using by the maximum for each pixel. Clouds have low NDVI values, so cloudy areas are often removed entirely as few places on the planet have 16 days of continuous cloud cover.\
\
-> Each of these composites can then be stacked to create the TIme Series Images that I mentioned. A TSI is just a multi-band image where each band is one of the composites.\
-> The composites are stacked sequentially,\
-> and enough bands are used to cover an entire growing season. Here is an simple example of this shown three dates. The bands are consecutive; what is great about this is that we can plot a pixel's values, and this shows the VI value over time, or the 
\b temporal signature
\b0  of the pixel.\
\
-> Taking the example a step further, here is a plot of crop temporal signatures found by Wardlow and Egbert in Kansas. I am primarily interested in corn, soy, and sorghum, shown here in yellow, green, and black. Notice how each of these crops has a unique signature; corn peaks before soy, though soy peaks higher. Sorghum has the lowest peak of the three, and its development extends even later into the fall than the others. You can also see what winter wheat looks like in comparison, with it's early spring development.\
\
-> So, there are a couple key points to take away from this: (1) A TSI pixel shows VI values over time, and (2) Each crop's phenology---it's development pattern---exhibits a unique temporal signature.\
\
-> The second question---how does one determine a crop's VI values---is also answered in the literature.\
-> That is, research will tell you to use training sites. This makes sense, as training sites are to tell the classifier what each class looks like, an then it can do its business separating an image into classes which match the training sites. But this brings me to the key problem I wish to solve\
\
-> How can one classify crops if they don't have training data?\
\
Well, let's go back to the key points of TSIs\
-> TSIs show values over time, and each crop has unique signatures\'85\
\
-> This sounds a lot like hyperspectral remote sensing methods where a data cube, or stack of spectral bands, shows reflectance values over the spectrum, and every material has a unique spectral signature\'85\
\
-> So an idea: could we use a hyperspectral-like method to fit known crop temporal signatures to unknown pixels?\
\
A challenge with this ideas is that spectral reflectance does not vary from place to place or time to time. However, crop development does have locational and inter annual differences.\
-> That is, three transformations can occur on to a base signature, as shown in this example. The first is a time shift. This would be like what happens when comparing northern hemisphere crops with southern hemisphere one. Because the summers are out of phase with one another, the growing seasons occur at distinctly different times of the year. Here we can see the original signature in red, with the signature of the same crop that was planted much earlier in the year. The temporal signatures are the same shape, just shifted in time.\
\
The next example here is horizontal scaling of the signature. This is what happens due to variations in the length of a growing season. A shorter growing season, such as shown in the blue curve here, is compressed, while a longer season like the green curve is stretched.\
\
The bottom example demonstrates vertical scaling of a reference signature. This can be thought of as differences in plant health. For example, a field that is abnormally healthy and has larger plants has a higher biomass, and therefore a higher vegetation index value, like the blue curve. However, if the crop does not grow as well, it's VI values will be lower, as exemplified by the purple curve.\
\
---TSF METHOD---\
However, there is a way to account for these three transformation factors and be able to compare two signatures. The mechanism for this comes from Sakamoto et al.'s two step filter, or TSF, methods. The TSF method has two steps, hence it's name, the first of which is to perform a wavelet smoothing of the input signatures, then use some equations to do some curve fitting.\
\
Sakamoto et al devised this method to find key dates in a crops phenological development, such as when a crop is germinating or ready for harvest. However, I recognized that this method could actually be used to fit a known reference signature to an unknown pixel.\
\
How does this work?\
-> Well there are a couple equations. This first equation is really just a means to find the root mean square error, or or average difference, between two signatures, f(x) and g(x). f(x) is an unknown pixel in a TSI, and g(x) is a transformed reference signature. What do I mean by this?\
\
-> Well, g(x) is given by this second equation. Here we see h(x), which represents the reference temporal signature of a crop, and it is transformed by the tshift, yscale, and xscale parameters. If we go back to this example,\
-> the t shift is this top transformation, the shift in time, the xscale is the middle transformation, or the horizontal stretching due to changes in growing season length, and the yscale is the bottom transformation representing changes in the maximum value.\
\
-> So putting this all together, if we minimize equation 1 with appropriate bounds on these three parameters, we can find the fit of a reference signature to a pixel.\
\
-> When we fit multiple signatures to a TSI pixel, we can say the the signature that resulted in the lowest RMSE value provides the most probable identification of the signatures used. This is really important. Why?\
\
-> Well, it answers the problem: what if you don't have training sites?\
-> We can use the TSF equations to classify unknown pixels in a TSI using a library of standard temporal signatures.\
\
---STUDY AREAS---\
Okay, so, now I am going to talk about my study areas.\
-> My first study area is a small 100 MODIS pixel by 100 MODIS pixel are to the northwest of Wichita, KS, right in the middle of the state. Why Kansas? Well, the top three crops in Kansas are winter wheat, corn, and soy, the last two of which are the two I am primarily interested in. Additionally, a ground truth layer is available for the entire state in the form of the USDA cropland data layer, a 30-meter raster dataset of crop cover and other land covers. Because of this ground truth, I was able to do my testing in this site, and I used location for the extraction of the reference crop signatures used for classifications.\
\
-> My Argentina study area that I chose to classify is the department of Pellegrini in the Northwest corner of the province of Santiago del estero, which itself in the northwest of the country. It is bordered on to the southwest by the province of Tucuman, and to the northwest by the province of Salta. It is right on the edge of the frontier; to the east in particular is very undeveloped.\
\
-> Because of its frontier nature, I believe development has been fairly limited until recently. This map here shows a composite from 1973 and 1975; aside from a few small areas of degradation due to cattle ranching, deforestation is very limited. However, by 1993 some major deforestation had taken place, mainly spreading in from the southwest due to the early and extensive expansion of agriculture in Tucuman province. Between 1993 and 2001, little changed; only a few areas of increased deforestation are visible. However, between 2001 and this year, a dramatic amount of deforestation has taken place throughout the entire department. I will note here that the yellow dot is the city of Nueva Esperanza, the population center of the department, and my base of operations for my fieldwork.\
\
-> Breaking the deforestation down into numbers, between 2001 to 2005, only 6,000 hectares were cleared in Pellegrini. However, between 2006 and 2011, over 75,000 hectares were deforested. This is almost 11% of the land area of the department, and an annual rate of over 15,000 hectares per year\
-> AN INCREASE OF OVER 1000%! Additionally, of the 75,000 hectares cut in this period, more than half occurred after the passing of the OTBN in 2009, when the Ley de Bosques should have been reducing the rate of deforestation.\
\
-> The one study that I did find that classified specific crops in Pellegrini had data for the years 2001 through 2005, over which years the top crops were soy, corn, and winter wheat.\
\
---DATA AND METHODS---\
Okay, so my data and methods. I'm going to begin by reviewing my data sources, and then quickly overview my processing workflow.\
\
-> I used four types of data for this project. The first were the 250-meter MODIS VI composites I have already discussed.\
-> The second was the 2012 30-m cropland data layer, which I mentioned I used for ground truth in Kansas.\
-> Third, I used 30-meter Landsat 8 imagery, primarily for my data collection maps for my Pellegrini fieldwork, and for digitizing the collected data\
-> Lastly, I used a shapefile of the administrative boundary of pellegrini\
\
-> Another dataset I must also mention is the Summer 2014 Pellegrini land cover dataset I collected and digitized. I used this in the Argentina classification procedure.\
\
-> Okay, on to my methods. I'll begin reviewing my data collection in Pellegrini. I visited Pellegrini in March and April of this year.\
Before leaving I randomly generated 400 sample points across the department to sample. These points directed my surveying efforts. I used three main strategies for identifying the land cover at each point:\
-> Direct observation, interviews with farmers, and satellite image interpretation\
-> I also tried to gather data on typical agricultural practices and planting/harvesting dates. The dates were key in determining what time period to use when selecting imagery for the TSI.\
\
-> My processing workflow had a number of steps, listed here. I am going to quickly go through them and explain what I did.\
-> Step one was reprojection of each of the MODIS composites using the MODIS Reprojection tool.\
-> Step 2 was building the TSIs for Kansas and Argentina. To do this I mate a python command line tool which would take the specified images and stack them into single image.\
-> I chose to focus only on summer crops, so I used data from the Kansas summer of 2012 and the Argentine summer of 2014. Notice that the Argentine summer actually begins at the end of the previous year.\
-> I had issues with clouds in Argentina, so while all my other data came from the Terra satellite, I had to sub in one composite from the Aqua satellite, and I also had to interpolate one date that I could not get from either satellite.\
\
-> The third step was extracting the crop signatures form the Kansas TSI. However, I had to do a number of things to isolate the signatures. First, I had to identify all the pure pixels, or non-mixels, in the study area. To do this, I intersected a vector of the MODIS pixel grid with a vectorized version of the 30-m CDL. Any mixels would have had multiple land covers in the CDL, and would have been broken into smaller pieces, so I selected only those grid cells remaining that were about 98% of the area of a whole MODIS pixel.\
\
-> Next, I isolated the pure pixels for each crop. I resample the CDL to match the MODIS grid, then separated out the pixels for each summer crop\
\
-> For the third part, I had to identify each crop's unique phenological groups using k-means clustering. I did this in ENVI, and found three clusters for each crop.\
\
-> Finally, I extracted the pixel values for each each group and averaged. I created a python tool to do this as well; given a shapefile of points, it will find the mean signature of those points and output a .ref file that has the signature values. This plot here is a simple illustration showing the signatures of a few sample points and their mean.\
-> So, after this step, we have crop signatures, three for each crop because I found three clusters!\
\
-> Okay, back to the main processing steps. The fourth and sixth steps are both the same, just done for each study area. Both times the Kansas signatures are fit to the study area's TSI using the TSF method. I will note that I did not use the wavelet filtering of the TSF, just the curve fitting equations. To implement this, I again created a python command line tool. This tool output a RMSE raster for each signature processed, so three per crop.\
\
-> The fifth and seventh steps are also repeated for each study area. These steps produced the final classifications and accuracy assessments. If you remember back to the background, the lowest RMSE value provides an identification for a pixel\
-> However, not all RMSE values should be considered; that is, even a signature that does not fit a pixel well at all will still produce a measurable RMSE, it will simply be very high.\
-> Additionally, if not of the signatures tested fit well, then all the RMSE will be high and none will be a good match.\
\
-> But what is too high? Where do we draw the line?\
\
-> So I came up with a solution to this problem. Kind of. I butte forced though every RMSE threshold combination in a range, classifying the RMSE rasters and assessing the accuracy to find the best combination. Unfortunately, as this method stands, to find the optimum classification, one does need ground truth data for the accuracy assessment component.\
\
-> Anyway, for steps 5 and 7 I created another tool to iterate through all the combinations a user specifies, and the tool produces a classification raster and a boolean accuracy raster using the best Error threshold combination.\
\
---RESULTS---\
Okay, I think it is time for some results. I'm going to go through each stage of my analysis, present the results, and discuss the significance.\
-> Specifically, I'll show you my Pellegrini ground truth and the agricultural practices I found. Then I will discuss the extracted Kansas crop signatures. Fourth, I'll show you the Kansas classification I did to verify the operation of the method and tools, and lastly I will show you the results of the Pellegrini classification.\
\
---PELLEGRINI GROUND TRUTH---\
Of my 400 sample points, I was able to get an id on 378 of them, shown here in the map as the green filled dots. The remaining 22 are red filled. I collected many fields in addition to those that contained points to try and increase the comprehensiveness of my data.\
\
DESCRIBE MAP\
\
-> I found though talking with local famers that the summer and winter growing seasons in Pellegrini were very distinct and separated, so they do not overlap like in Kansas. As I was only there during the summer season, I only got summer crop ground truth, hence my decision to only classify summer crops. I found key planting dates for the Argentina crops varied from the Kansas dates; as you can see soy is planted before corn in Pellegrini. Poroto, which is a generic name for a number of common beans, is another popular summer crop.  One thing to note is that these date ranges are ideal date ranges; I was told that planting of these crops can occur up to a month later than what is listed, meaning there is greater flexibility in when crops can be planted here than in Kansas.\
\
---KANSAS CROP SIGNATURES---\
If you remember back to my methods discussion, I found three clusters for each of the three summer crops, shown here. You can see that the clusters generally delineated whole fields, which is good, as this supports the hypothesis that crops which undergo the same development should have the same temporal signatures. Notice that only one sorghum cluster was identified due to the small sample size of only 18 pixels.\
\
-> This is a plot of the signatures for each crop. The corn signatures are shown in orange, soy is in this blue color, and the lone sorghum signatures is purple. Notice that the corn signatures peak earlier in the year than the soy or sorghum signatures. The soy_1 signature does have a strange appearance, and the sorghum signature is both a bit stange and incomplete. I thought about adding some more dates to the end of this TSI to try to get the downslope on that signature, but I thought I'd run into problems with the emergence of winter wheat.\
\
---KANSAS VERIFICATION CLASSIFICATION---\
For the verification classification, I achieved an 84 % overall accuracy, with a kappa of 0.76, which isn't too bad and is in line with the accuracies found in previous phenological classification studies. I did notice some confusion between corn and soy, and problems with the sorghum classification, as you can see from the low sorghum accuracies.\
\
-> This is a table of the RMSE thresholds used from the classification. Notice that sorghum had the lowest threshold, so it was hardly considered in the classification, and why so few pixels were sorghum. The map to the right is the classification; black pixels were classified as other, and all the errors were outlined in red.\
\
---THE PELLEGRINI CLASSIFICATION---\
Here is the confusion matrix of Pellegrini classification made with the Kansas crop signatures. The overall accuracy is even higher, at 88%, but the kappa is much lower at 0.54. It is hard to see exactly why, as it turned out that many of my sample points fell in not corn, soy, or sorghum fields, so the samples are overweighed by the tremendous number in the other class. Even so, one can see that no points were classified as sorghum, and some serious confusion exists between corn and soy.\
\
-> Looking at the thresholds used for this classification, the sorghum problem is obvious as a threshold of 0 didn't allow any sorghum pixels to be classifies as such. It is also interesting to note that bit the corn_3 and soy_1 signatures were not used to create the best classification.\
\
-> The map of the classification reaffirms the corn-soy confusion problem. If we refer back to the ground truth, we can see that the areas that were classified as corn or soy fit relatively well with the pattern of agriculture in Pellegrini, even if they are not classified separately.\
\
-> I decided to perform a second accuracy assessment, checking the classification against all the pixels with positive identifications in the ground truth. This greatly boosted my sample size and helped make a few patterns stand out better. Do this actually make my overall accuracy increase slightly, but the kappa went down. Looking to see why, the confusion between corn and soy is better represented, as is the fact that many corn and soy fields pixels were not classified. Also, we can see some confusion with other land covers; I decided to break this down and found that other summer crops were likely responsible for this much of this confusion.\
\
-> To further examine why corn and soy were so unreliably differentiated, I decided to run the same cluster analysis on the Pellegrini TSI to extract the signatures of each crop in the ground truth. The three signatures identified in corn, soy, and sorghum are shown here.\
\
DESCRIBE PLOT\
\
HERE IS POROTO AND PASTURE AREAS -- POROTO HAS SIMILAR SHAPE\
\
LASTLY, FOREST, NOTHING, OTHER\
\
---CONCLUSION---\
}